fix: Update revocation spec (#249)
notaryproject/notaryproject: specs/trust-store-trust-policy.md

> Notary v2 allows user to execute custom validations during verificaton using plugins. Please refer [plugin-extensibility.md](plugin-extensibility.md#verification-extensibility) for more information.

Reviewer: Notary v2 ==> Notation

Reviewer 2: Second all commends from @yizha1 about changing the name. When we talk about the signature, we should use "Notary signature", when we talk about the CLI, we should use "Notation".

Author: Yes we should move away from `notary v2` but we shouldn't include unrelated changes as part of updating revocation spec PR. There should be a separate pr to remove `notary v2` usage.

Reviewer: @priteshbandi I am OK to create another PR to address the `notary v2` wording.

### Certificate Revocation Evaluation

If the certificate revocation validation is set to `skip` using policy, skip the below steps, otherwise check for revocation status for certificate and certificate chain.

> If the revocation status of any of the certificates is revoked or cannot be determined (revocation unavailable), fail this step. This will fail the overall signature verification or log the error, depending on if revocations status check is `enforced` or `logged`, as per the signature verification level.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence is a bit confusing. Can we provide some more clarity? At the moment is reads:
> If the revocation status of any of the certificates is revoked or cannot be determined (revocation unavailable)
If the _revocation status is revoked_ doesn't this mean that the certificate is valid? I would suggest to reword to make sure we are clear what the behavior is.

Author: ```suggestion
If any certificate in the certificate chain is revoked or their revocation status cannot be determined (revocation unavailable), fail this step. Depending upon the revocation validation enforcement level specified in the trust policy, this will either lead to signature verification failure or an error being logged
```

Does this helps?

> If the revocation status is revoked doesn't this mean that the certificate is valid? I would suggest to reword to make sure we are clear what the behavior is.

If certificate is revoked than certificate is not valid from verification perspective. IMO valid is an overloaded term, syntactically the certificate is valid because its a valid x509 cert(follows rcf) but semantically its invalid as its revoked.

CRL download location (URL) can be obtained from the certificate's CRL Distribution Point (CDP) extension.
If the certificate contains multiple CDP locations then each location download is attempted in sequential order.

> For each CDP location, Notary V2 will try to download the CRL for the default threshold of 10 seconds.

Reviewer: Notary v2 => Notation

>        If the invalidity date is before the timestamping date, the certificate is considered revoked.

Reviewer 2: Should those two be numbered?

Author: yes, updated

##### OCSP Download

> OCSP URLs can be obtained from the certificate's authority information access (AIA) extension as defined in [RFC-6960](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6960).

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
OCSP URLs can be obtained from the certificate's authority information access (AIA) extension as defined in [RFC 6960](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6960).
```

If the certificate contains multiple OCSP URLs, then each URL is invoked in sequential order.

> For each OCSP URL, Notary V2 will wait for a default threshold of 5 seconds to receive an OCSP response.

Reviewer 4: Can you provide some details on how we arrived at 5 seconds? Why can't it be lower?

s/Notary v2/Notation

Author: We can have it lower; just for consistency between crl and ocsp I picked 5 sec. Do you have any recommendation?

Author: As per discussion with Milind will update ocsp timeout to 2 seconds

The user may be able to configure this threshold.

> If OCSP response is not available within the timeout threshold the revocation result will be "revocation unavailable".

Reviewer 2: Is it 5 secs for all OCSP URLs or for each individual URL?

Author: For individual URL, updated the spec.

> If OCSP response is not available within the timeout threshold the revocation result will be "revocation unavailable".

Reviewer: I am updating the threat model for OCSP. If OCSP responder is not accessible, could it be a DoS? Since the revocation status is always unavailable, so verify will always fail. If we disable the revocation check, we are at the risk of using an invalid certificate for verification.

Author: Yes, it is indeed possible for a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the OCSP endpoint to render the OCSP server inaccessible. In the scenario where the revocation verification level is set to "enforce", this will result in a signature verification failure. However, for other cases (log or skip), the signature verification will succeed.

##### OCSP Download

> OCSP URLs can be obtained from the certificate's authority information access (AIA) extension as defined in [RFC-2560](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2560).

Reviewer 5: Should we update the RFC to 6960? It's stated that rfc-6960 obsoletes rfc-2560.
```suggestion
OCSP URLs can be obtained from the certificate's authority information access (AIA) extension as defined in [RFC-6960](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6960).
```

If the certificate contains multiple OCSP URLs, then each URL is invoked in sequential order.

> Notary V2 will wait for a default threshold of 5 seconds to receive an OCSP response.

Reviewer: Notary v2 ==> Notation

   This step also includes verifying the OSCP response signing certificate is valid and trusted.
   The OCSP signing certificate must be issued by the same CA as the certificate being verified or the OCSP response must be signed by the issuing CA.
1. Verify that the OCSP response is valid (not expired).
   Response is considered expired if the current date is after the `NextUpdate` field in the response.
1. Verify that the OCSP response indicates that the certificate is not revoked i.e `CertStatus` is `good`.
    1. If the certificate is revoked i.e `CertStatus` is `revoked`, look for `InvalidityDate`.
       If the invalidity date is present and timestamp signature is also present then if the invalidity date is before the timestamping date, the certificate is considered revoked.
       If the invalidity date is not present in OCSP response, the certificate is considered revoked.
    1. If the certificate status is `unknown`, the revocation status is considered `revocation unavailable`.
1. If `id-pkix-ocsp-nocheck`(1.3.6.1.5.5.7.48.1.5) extension is not present on the OCSP signing certificate then revocation checking must be performed using CRLs for the OCSP signing certificate.

> ## FAQ

Reviewer: Please update `Notary v2` to `Notation` for other places in the document.

> ## FAQ

Reviewer: Maybe we can remove the following "TODO"?

**Q: Does Notary v2 support overriding of revocation endpoints to support signature verification in disconnected environments?**
**A:** TODO: Update after verification extensibility spec is ready.

Author: Yes will do it in separate PR
